As a marketer, you may choose to try and attract
people to your website with sponsored search ads.
The page search traffic channel reports on
traffic that landed on your site by clicking on these ads.
Here through the channels report,
we get a high level view on the keyword that led people to click on your ads.
In the case of the Google Merchandise Store,
it looks like paid advertising was not the main traffic driver in August.
But there is some traffic.
So, that tells me there were PPC search advertising campaigns running at the time.
Let's take a look at the keywords associated with these ads,
and which ones lead to visit on the sites.
It looks like quite a bit of the paid search traffic came through dynamic search ads.
In that case, we don't get to see the specific keywords.
Dynamic search ads are search ads for which you provide
the landing page you're targeting and Google scans the page automatically,
and shows your ad when keywords show up that
Google feels are related to the landing page.
You don't specify the keyword.
Instead, Google shows your ad when it believes the keyword is related to what you offer.
This is one of the options when you set up a search campaign in Google Ads.
It looks like the other keywords are pretty generic and they refer to the store.
So, as we mentioned before,
it might be interesting for the Google merchandise store team to
consider buying a few more product specific keywords.
When you use the channels report to assess sponsored search traffic,
you get a high level view.
You could however get a lot more detail by looking
into the Google Ads specific section here.
Google Ads is the most commonly used platform for buying paid search advertising.
When you set up campaigns in Google Ads,
you can link your Google Ads account to your Google Analytics account.
When you do that, Google Analytics will report on
the traffic from paid search by campaign,
and we'll add cost information and other data related to your campaigns.
The big benefit of linking Google Ads
to Google Analytics is that it will give you a chance to
take a deeper look at how the traffic that
comes from the different campaigns behaves on your site.
So, you get more information than just click-throughs.
It will help you evaluate which campaigns bring you the most valuable traffic.
We'll see more about how to evaluate that later.
You can find more information on how to link your Adwords
account to your Google Analytics account in the notes below.